README.md, before:

<p align="center"><img src="./misc/emacs_icon.svg" width=150 heigth=150/></p>
<p align="center">
	<a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GNU%20Emacs-27.0.50-b48ead.svg?style=flat-square"/></a>
	<a href="https://orgmode.org/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/org--mode-9.2.3-489a9f.svg?style=flat-square"/></a>
</p>
<p align="center">Personal <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/"><b>GNU Emacs</b></a> configuration ✨🐂💫</p>

---

# 🚀 Get inspired

This Emacs configuration is made possible thanks to a lot of wise people (see a few in the [source](#source) section).  
This repo, on top of being a documented configuration for my future self, aims to inspire you through some amazing features delivered by Emacs.  
I advise people not to use this configuration directly.  
Not because I don't like you to have my configuration. Some of my settings are host-specific and/or depend on path variables, Emacs Lisp files I did not add to the GitHub repository, or external tools.  

You should only adopt Emacs Lisp code you need and understand, to avoid [Emacs bankruptcy](https://www.emacswiki.org/emacs/DotEmacsBankruptcy).  

Please feel free to look up certain tricks and functions and add it to your configuration.  

# 🔥 Features

## ✨ Apparence

How it looks :

| state | activation | action                                                                                                      |
|:-----:|:---|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ✅    | auto | start full screen                                                                                           |
| ✅    | auto | bar cursor instead of block cursor                                                                          |
| ✅    | auto | remove menu                                                                                                 |
| ✅    | auto | remove tool bar                                                                                             |
| ✅    | auto | remove scroll bar                                                                                           |
| ✅    | auto | no line number                                                                                              |
| ✅    | auto | hide the startup message                                                                                    |
| ✅    | auto | set a homepage [dashboard](https://github.com/emacs-dashboard/emacs-dashboard) displaying recent used files |
| ✅    | auto | cursor line position                                                                                        |
| ✅    | auto |[horizon](https://github.com/aodhneine/horizon-theme.el) theme                                              |

## ⚡ Behavior

How it feels :

| state | activation                  | action                                                                                                                                   |
|:-----:|:----------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ✅    | auto                        | typed text replaces the selection if the selection is active                                                                             |
| ✅    | auto                        | always [replace tabs with spaces](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SsoOG6ZeyUI) and set tab width to 4 spaces for all buffers             |
| ✅    | auto                        | cursor scroll [smoothly](https://github.com/aspiers/smooth-scrolling)                                                                    |
| ✅    | auto                        | mousewheel scroll one line at a time (less "jumpy" than defaults)                                                                        |
| ✅    | auto                        | past things without indentation mess                                                                                                            |
| ✅    | `M-x` `1` or `2` or `3` ... | [window numbering](https://github.com/nschum/window-numbering.el) to navigate between buffers easily                                     |
| ✅    | auto                        | [zoom](https://github.com/gonewest818/dimmer.el) current window size                                                                     |
| ✅    | auto                        | visually highlight the selected buffer using [dimmer](https://github.com/gonewest818/dimmer.el)                                          |
| ✅    | auto                        | disable backups auto-saves                                                                                                               |
| ✅    | auto                        | change yes-or-no questions into y-or-n questions                                                                                         |
| ✅    | auto                        | After you split a window, your cursor goes on the new one                                                                                |
| ✅    | `C-s`                       | [swiper](https://github.com/abo-abo/swiper) instead of the default search                                                                |
| ✅    | `C-x b`                     | ibuffer instead of the default switch-to-buffer                                                                                          |
| ✅    | `M-s`                       | move around quickly with [avy](https://github.com/abo-abo/avy)                                                                           |
| ✅    | auto                        | treats camelCase strings as several words                                                                                                |
| ✅    | auto                        | typing "()", "[]", "{}" by pair                                                                                                          |
| ✅    | auto                        | briefly highlighted your cursor when changing buffer with [beacon](https://github.com/Malabarba/beacon)                                  |
| ✅    | auto                        | colors parentheses and other delimiters depending on their depth with [rainbow-delimiters](https://github.com/Fanael/rainbow-delimiters) |
| ✅    | auto                        | highlights matching parens when the cursor is just behind one of them                                                                    |
| ✅    | `C-x t t`                   | pop a tree layout file explorer [treemacs](https://github.com/Alexander-Miller/treemacs)                                                 |
| ✅    | `C-q`                       | [Expand region](https://github.com/magnars/expand-region.el) selection                                                                   |
| ✅    | `M-y`                       | [popup kill ring](https://github.com/waymondo/popup-kill-ring)                                                                           |
    
## 📑 Org mode

How it organizes :

Have a look [here](./programming_conf/org.md).

- [org agenda](https://blog.aaronbieber.com/2016/09/24/an-agenda-for-life-with-org-mode.html)
- [org contact](https://www.reddit.com/r/emacs/comments/8toivy/tip_how_to_manage_your_contacts_with_orgcontacts/)
  
## 🐍 Python

How it codes :

| state | activation      | action                                                                                                                                   |
|:-----:|:----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ✅    | auto            | [elpy](https://github.com/jorgenschaefer/elpy)                                                                                           |
| ✅    | auto            | use [flycheck](https://github.com/flycheck/flycheck) instead of flymake                                                                  |
| ✅    | `M-x ein:login` | emacs ipython notebook : [ein](https://github.com/millejoh/emacs-ipython-notebook) and how to [use it](/programming_conf/python_ein.md)  |
| ✅    | `Tab`           | [yasnippet](https://github.com/joaotavora/yasnippet) with custom [snippets](./snippets/python-mode)                                      |

## 💽 Git

How it saves :

It's [Magit](https://magit.vc/) !

| action     | kbd                                    |
|------------|:---------------------------------------|
| open magit | `C-x g`                                |
| stack      | `s`                                    |
| unstack    | `u`                                    |
| commit     | `c` + `c` + commit message + `C-c C-c` |
| push       | `P` + `p`                              |

## 🙌 Life changing tricks

- on your computer settings : change the <kbd>CapsLk</kbd> key by <kbd>ctrl</kbd>. You're welcome.
- preview markdown file : `M-x markdown-live-preview-mode`
- macro :

    | action             | kbd                         |
    |--------------------|:----------------------------|
    | start macro        | `C-x (`                     |
    | end macro          | `C-x )`                     |
    | play macro         | `C-x e`                     |
    | incremental number | `M-x kmacro-insert-counter` |
    | name last macro    | `M-x name-last-kbd-macro`   |
    | call named macro   | `M-x insert-kbd-macro`      |

# 🛈 Source <a name="source"/>

- [.emacs.d](https://github.com/garaud/foggycowinn/tree/master/emacs) by Damien Garaud
- [.emacs.d](https://github.com/daedreth/UncleDavesEmacs) by Dawid Eckert
- [.emacs.d](https://github.com/purcell/emacs.d) by Purcell 
- [.emacs.d](https://github.com/bbatsov/emacs.d) by Bozhidar Batsov 
- [.emacs.d](https://github.com/rememberYou/.emacs.d) by RememberYou  
- [mastering emacs in one year](https://github.com/redguardtoo/mastering-emacs-in-one-year-guide/blob/master/guide-en.org)
- [learn elisp in 15 minutes](https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/fr-fr/elisp-fr/)

# 📜 License

**GPL-3.0 License**, I choose you !

Commit message:

startup link to init.el and quote

README.md, after:

<p align="center"><img src="./misc/emacs_icon.svg" width=150 heigth=150/></p>
<p align="center">
	<a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GNU%20Emacs-27.0.50-b48ead.svg?style=flat-square"/></a>
	<a href="https://orgmode.org/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/org--mode-9.2.3-489a9f.svg?style=flat-square"/></a>
</p>
<p align="center">Personal <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/"><b>GNU Emacs</b></a> configuration ✨🐂💫</p>

---

# 🚀 Get inspired

This Emacs configuration is made possible thanks to a lot of wise people (see a few in the [source](#source) section).  
This repo, on top of being a documented configuration for my future self, aims to inspire you through some amazing features delivered by Emacs.  
I advise people not to use this configuration directly.  
Not because I don't like you to have my configuration. Some of my settings are host-specific and/or depend on path variables, Emacs Lisp files I did not add to the GitHub repository, or external tools.  

You should only adopt Emacs Lisp code you need and understand, to avoid [Emacs bankruptcy](https://www.emacswiki.org/emacs/DotEmacsBankruptcy).  

Please feel free to look up certain tricks and functions and add it to your configuration.  

# 🔥 Features

>“If you have to ask what jazz is,  
>you’ll never know.”  
>**Louis Armstrong**

## ✨ Apparence

How it looks :

| state | activation | action                                                                                                      |
|:-----:|:---|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ✅    | auto | start full screen                                                                                           |
| ✅    | auto | bar cursor instead of block cursor                                                                          |
| ✅    | auto | remove menu                                                                                                 |
| ✅    | auto | remove tool bar                                                                                             |
| ✅    | auto | remove scroll bar                                                                                           |
| ✅    | auto | no line number                                                                                              |
| ✅    | auto | hide the startup message                                                                                    |
| ✅    | auto | set a homepage [dashboard](https://github.com/emacs-dashboard/emacs-dashboard) displaying recent used files |
| ✅    | auto | cursor line position                                                                                        |
| ✅    | auto |[horizon](https://github.com/aodhneine/horizon-theme.el) theme                                              |

## ⚡ Behavior

How it feels :

| state | activation                  | action                                                                                                                                   |
|:-----:|:----------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ✅    | auto                        | typed text replaces the selection if the selection is active                                                                             |
| ✅    | auto                        | always [replace tabs with spaces](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SsoOG6ZeyUI) and set tab width to 4 spaces for all buffers             |
| ✅    | auto                        | cursor scroll [smoothly](https://github.com/aspiers/smooth-scrolling)                                                                    |
| ✅    | auto                        | mousewheel scroll one line at a time (less "jumpy" than defaults)                                                                        |
| ✅    | auto                        | past things without indentation mess                                                                                                            |
| ✅    | `M-x` `1` or `2` or `3` ... | [window numbering](https://github.com/nschum/window-numbering.el) to navigate between buffers easily                                     |
| ✅    | auto                        | [zoom](https://github.com/gonewest818/dimmer.el) current window size                                                                     |
| ✅    | auto                        | visually highlight the selected buffer using [dimmer](https://github.com/gonewest818/dimmer.el)                                          |
| ✅    | auto                        | disable backups auto-saves                                                                                                               |
| ✅    | auto                        | change yes-or-no questions into y-or-n questions                                                                                         |
| ✅    | auto                        | After you split a window, your cursor goes on the new one                                                                                |
| ✅    | `C-s`                       | [swiper](https://github.com/abo-abo/swiper) instead of the default search                                                                |
| ✅    | `C-x b`                     | ibuffer instead of the default switch-to-buffer                                                                                          |
| ✅    | `M-s`                       | move around quickly with [avy](https://github.com/abo-abo/avy)                                                                           |
| ✅    | auto                        | treats camelCase strings as several words                                                                                                |
| ✅    | auto                        | typing "()", "[]", "{}" by pair                                                                                                          |
| ✅    | auto                        | briefly highlighted your cursor when changing buffer with [beacon](https://github.com/Malabarba/beacon)                                  |
| ✅    | auto                        | colors parentheses and other delimiters depending on their depth with [rainbow-delimiters](https://github.com/Fanael/rainbow-delimiters) |
| ✅    | auto                        | highlights matching parens when the cursor is just behind one of them                                                                    |
| ✅    | `C-x t t`                   | pop a tree layout file explorer [treemacs](https://github.com/Alexander-Miller/treemacs)                                                 |
| ✅    | `C-q`                       | [Expand region](https://github.com/magnars/expand-region.el) selection                                                                   |
| ✅    | `M-y`                       | [popup kill ring](https://github.com/waymondo/popup-kill-ring)                                                                           |
    
## 📑 Org mode

How it organizes :

Have a look [here](./programming_conf/org.md).

- [org agenda](https://blog.aaronbieber.com/2016/09/24/an-agenda-for-life-with-org-mode.html)
- [org contact](https://www.reddit.com/r/emacs/comments/8toivy/tip_how_to_manage_your_contacts_with_orgcontacts/)
  
## 🐍 Python

How it codes :

| state | activation      | action                                                                                                                                   |
|:-----:|:----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ✅    | auto            | [elpy](https://github.com/jorgenschaefer/elpy)                                                                                           |
| ✅    | auto            | use [flycheck](https://github.com/flycheck/flycheck) instead of flymake                                                                  |
| ✅    | `M-x ein:login` | emacs ipython notebook : [ein](https://github.com/millejoh/emacs-ipython-notebook) and how to [use it](/programming_conf/python_ein.md)  |
| ✅    | `Tab`           | [yasnippet](https://github.com/joaotavora/yasnippet) with custom [snippets](./snippets/python-mode)                                      |

## 💽 Git

How it saves :

It's [Magit](https://magit.vc/) !

| action     | kbd                                    |
|------------|:---------------------------------------|
| open magit | `C-x g`                                |
| stack      | `s`                                    |
| unstack    | `u`                                    |
| commit     | `c` + `c` + commit message + `C-c C-c` |
| push       | `P` + `p`                              |

## 🙌 Life changing tricks

- on your computer settings : change the <kbd>CapsLk</kbd> key by <kbd>ctrl</kbd>. You're welcome.
- preview markdown file : `M-x markdown-live-preview-mode`
- to make `.emacs` point on the `.emacs.d/init.el` config file, add the following in your `.emacs` file :

  ```lang-el
  (setq user-emacs-directory (file-truename "~/.emacs.d/"))
  (setq user-init-file "~/.emacs.d/init.el")
  (load user-init-file)
  ```
  
- macro :

    | action             | kbd                         |
    |--------------------|:----------------------------|
    | start macro        | `C-x (`                     |
    | end macro          | `C-x )`                     |
    | play macro         | `C-x e`                     |
    | incremental number | `M-x kmacro-insert-counter` |
    | name last macro    | `M-x name-last-kbd-macro`   |
    | call named macro   | `M-x insert-kbd-macro`      |

# 🛈 Source <a name="source"/>

- [.emacs.d](https://github.com/garaud/foggycowinn/tree/master/emacs) by Damien Garaud
- [.emacs.d](https://github.com/daedreth/UncleDavesEmacs) by Dawid Eckert
- [.emacs.d](https://github.com/purcell/emacs.d) by Purcell 
- [.emacs.d](https://github.com/bbatsov/emacs.d) by Bozhidar Batsov 
- [.emacs.d](https://github.com/rememberYou/.emacs.d) by RememberYou  
- [mastering emacs in one year](https://github.com/redguardtoo/mastering-emacs-in-one-year-guide/blob/master/guide-en.org)
- [learn elisp in 15 minutes](https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/fr-fr/elisp-fr/)

# 📜 License

**GPL-3.0 License**, I choose you !
